Now, the first way to make use of concurrency is to divide your program into
multiple separate single-threaded processes that are run at the same time.
These separate processes can then pass messages to each
other through inter-process communication channels such as signals,
sockets, files, and several others.
One disadvantage of such a system is that the communication processes can be
slow and it can be complicated because
everything has to be managed through the operating system.
The operating system has to provide a lot of protection as well between processes
to avoid one process accidentally modifying the data which belongs to another process.
Also, it takes a lot of time and resources to start a process in the first place.
The advantage of inter-process communication is that
the operating system provides a significant amount of
protection and also high-level communication mechanisms
that are comparatively easy to use by the user,
by the program, that means you.
This makes it easier to write
safe concurrent programs using processes instead of threads.
One final advantage of processes,
separate processes can be easily run on
a distributed architecture such as in a computer network over the Internet for example.
The second way to make use of concurrency is to run multiple threads in a single process.
Threads are often referred to as lightweight processes which run
independently of each other and each with its own set of instructions.
Now, the big difference to processes is that threads in a process share
the same address space and most of the data can be
accessed directly from all the threads,
and the shared address space also reduces
the overhead which is associated with using multiple processes.
It's much smaller than that from using multiple processes.
The problem is that this flexibility comes with a price as always.
If data is accessed by multiple threads,
you as a programmer,
you must ensure that the view of data which can be seen by each thread is consistent.
Let's take a deeper look at the differences between threads and processes.